[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
And we are going to
talk about your health.
That's because you
need to be healthy
because we don't
want to lose you
as a viewer on "Beyond Belief."
Our special guest is
pharmacist Ben Fuchs
from criticalhealthnews.com.
Ben has spent more than 35 years
as a registered pharmacist,
consulting nutritionist,
cosmetic chemist.
He's done it all.
Ben, welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>BEN FUCHS: Thank you.
Great to be here, George.
>>NOORY: How are--
you look healthy.
You must be doing
something right.
>>FUCHS: More time to work out.
I'm at home.
I've got more time to work out.
>>NOORY: Well, good for you.
What's new?
>>FUCHS: Ah.
There's all kinds of stuff new,
the whole dramatic stuff that's
going on in our
culture and helping
people deal with their immune
systems to help protect them.
That's the best way, the way
I look at it, the best way
to deal with all the
stuff that's going on--
strengthen your immune system.
>>NOORY: All things considered,
if you have five people,
one's going to have a
great immune system.
Another's going to
have an average one.
Another's going to have
a horrible immune system.
Why the difference between
the good one and the bad one?
>>FUCHS: Great question.
Well, first of all, one
of the major factors
that's involved with how strong
we are via the immune system,
in terms of the immune
system, is our minds.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>FUCHS: How we see the world.
Do we see the world--
we see the world on
a spectrum, where
on the left side of
the spectrum is fear.
On the right side of
the spectrum is love.
And people are in different
parts of that spectrum.
It's like a continuum.
The closer you are to
love, the more robust
your immune system's
going to be.
The stronger it's going to be.
The more able it's
going to be to handle
whatever vicissitudes,
ups and downs, attacks,
invaders that life brings on.
And life is filled with
all that kind of stuff.
It's a jungle out there.
The more you're in fear, the
more your immune system's
going to be suppressed.
And we all live our lives
somewhere in that continuum
on some place.
Now, to me, that's the
most important aspect.
But then there are things like
food, the kind of nutrition
you're taking, supplementation.
You know I'm big
on supplementation.
>>NOORY: Environment.
>>FUCHS: The environment,
the air you're breathing.
Wuhan, interestingly, is
one of most toxic and air--
right?
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>FUCHS: They were having
riots last year about the air.
That's how bad.
The people were rioting.
They were protesting about
how toxic the air was.
So in a way, surprise surprise.
>>NOORY: Go figure.
>>FUCHS: Right.
Exactly.
>>NOORY: Go figure.
>>FUCHS: So yeah.
So the air you're breathing,
if you live in the mountains
or you live in a
valley somewhere,
if you live in a house
that has mold in it,
if you're eating
processed food a lot,
there are all kinds of
factors are involved.
But to me, that's
where leveling out
the playing field with
nutritional supplementation
is so important.
You can allow your
body to handle
a lot more stresses, via mental
stresses or physical stresses,
if you're on a good
nutritional supplement program.
And that's really-- to
me, I focus on that a lot,
although I have
to say spiritual,
mental, emotional,
physical in that level.
You've got to be
spiritually correct,
you've got to be
mentally correct,
and you've got to be
emotionally correct.
Those are all factors.
But from a physical perspective,
exercise, respiration,
eating correctly, and get
on a nutritional supplement.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
My mother used to instill in
me as a young boy nutrition,
vitamins, supplements.
>>FUCHS: She's
ahead of the curve.
>>NOORY: She would clip out
articles in the newspaper
that some doctor had written.
And she'd mail it to
me or send it to me.
>>FUCHS: So you were already
hip to this kind of stuff.
>>NOORY: I was tuned into this.
You can tell on our interviews
on "Coast to Coast"--
>>FUCHS: Yeah, you
know some stuff--
>>NOORY: And when we're there.
>>FUCHS: Your mother
was ahead of the curve
because back then,
you were a health nut.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>FUCHS: They probably
thought she was a nut.
Some people, they probably
>>NOORY: And she's still
doing these things.
>>FUCHS: Good for her.
>>NOORY: Georgie, you talked
to Ben Fuchs last night.
>>FUCHS: Oh, is that right?
>>NOORY: Tell him to get me
this or that or stuff like that.
>>FUCHS: She's on a
supplement program?
>>NOORY: She's going
to be 91, and she's
on a supplement program.
And she's going strong.
>>FUCHS: Is she exercising?
>>NOORY: She drives herself.
>>FUCHS: That's excellent.
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
>>FUCHS: We are capable
of so much, George.
There are people who are 95
years old who go up and down
the Empire State Building.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>FUCHS: Our bodies
are capable of so much
if they're cared
for, if they're taken
care of on all levels--
physical, mental, emotional--
spiritual, mental,
emotional, physical.
But it's like having a car.
You can have a 1958
whatever, right?
You could have a 1958 whatever
and have it running as perfect
as a 2020 car.
>>NOORY: Why does
it seem that when
people retire, they fade fast?
>>FUCHS: Because
giving and service
and being engaged in the world
is a key part of being healthy.
Engagement-- we have created
a milieu or an environment
today where everyone's afraid
of each other, where we're
disengaging from each other.
That's the exact
opposite of what you want
to do for health and longevity.
And that's why,
like you say, when
people disengage from the work
environment and stay home,
my mom doesn't want--
she refuses to stop working.
You know what?
I'm not going to stop
working till the day I--
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>FUCHS: Right.
I am not going to stop working.
>>NOORY: You were a
pharmacist for 35 years.
>>FUCHS: Yes.
>>NOORY: You gave it up.
>>FUCHS: Well, no, I'm still a--
>>NOORY: Kind of.
>>FUCHS: I'm still a pharmacist.
>>NOORY: But you're
not at a drugstore--
>>FUCHS: I couldn't do it--
>>NOORY: Making prescriptions.
>>FUCHS: George,
I couldn't do it.
>>NOORY: Why?
What happened?
>>FUCHS: I couldn't
live with myself.
I was poisoning America.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>FUCHS: I was the guy doing it.
And when I talk about drugs,
people think it's hyperbole.
Maybe they think I'm
just one of those nuts,
Boulder, Colorado crazy
people or something like that.
No.
Strictly from a
scientific standpoint,
one of the worst
things you can do
to your body, strictly from
a scientific standpoint,
is take a drug.
Now, I'm not Pollyann-ish
enough to say
you never want to take drugs
because there are times.
I'm glad they have antibiotics.
>>NOORY: Sometimes, they work.
>>FUCHS: Not very often.
Pain pill-- not very often.
Pain pills and
antibiotics, the drugs
they give you for
chronic conditions,
not only don't work for
that chronic condition.
But they put a
burden on the body
that costs it nutrition
that doesn't show up
on the side effect profile.
So you may take a drug and
say, what are the side effects?
Oh, you might get drowsy.
You might get dizzy.
You might have
nausea and vomiting.
But they don't tell you
that it's costing you
B vitamins, vitamin
C, magnesium, copper,
and a whole slew of other
nutrients to process that drug.
And the magnesium
deficiency that shows up--
>>NOORY: Sucks it out
of you, doesn't it?
>>FUCHS: No, it causes--
your body uses magnesium
to detoxify the drug.
See, to the body, when you
take vitamin C, the body's
like, welcome home.
>>NOORY: Hi.
>>FUCHS: You're
my friend, right?
When it takes a drug, when
a drug enters the body,
it goes, red alert.
Red alert.
>>NOORY: Fight it.
>>FUCHS: Alarms.
>>NOORY: Let's get rid of it.
>>FUCHS: Exactly.
And that costs magnesium and
B vitamins and essential fatty
acids.
>>NOORY: It depletes you.
>>FUCHS: It depletes
you to process it.
So now, you run a high
risk of a heart attack.
But it doesn't show up as
the drugs you're taking.
It shows up you just
had a heart attack.
So the connection between
diseases and side effects
and drugs, the
drugs you're taking,
is understated so dramatically
that when you understand
the true impact, you are--
I was completely horrified.
And I was the guy who
was dispensing the stuff.
>>NOORY: Did you ever
not dispense something
because you didn't want to?
>>FUCHS: I didn't because I
was working for drugstores.
And I just decided at the end--
>>NOORY: And you didn't have
the right to do that, did you?
>>FUCHS: I was
working for somebody.
I was working for a drugstore.
So I couldn't really do it.
So I developed an
expertise in skin.
When I was in pharmacy school,
I worked for the Blistex
corporation, actually.
The guy who invented
Blistex was my professor.
>>NOORY: Which is
for the face, right?
>>FUCHS: For your lips.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FUCHS: So I studied lips.
I studied skin.
I studied how you make
products, topical products,
that have therapeutic
and medicinal value.
So I know how to make
skincare products.
So I started a dermatological
pharmacy where all I did was
make skincare products
and-- check this out--
use nutritional supplements.
>>NOORY: I want to get your
views on investigative reporter
Lynne McTaggart--
>>FUCHS: Yes, I love her--
>>NOORY: Talking about how some
medications just don't work.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Let's talk a little bit
about cures in general.
The British Medical Association
itself says that only about,
what, 12%--
or is it the "British
Medical Journal"?
>>LYNNE MCTAGGART: Mm-hmm.
>>MEREDITH: Yeah--
>>MCTAGGART: Yeah--
>>MEREDITH: Says that about
12% of the various drugs
and therapies actually work.
>>MCTAGGART: Yes, have
been proven to work.
Absolutely.
They looked at all of
the major treatments.
And that includes not just
drugs, but other treatments.
And they were really talking
about how much has actually
been proven to be--
and they studied all
of the literature
around these studies.
And yeah, you're
talking about just 12%.
Now--
>>MEREDITH: And
subjecting ourselves
to these things with
these horrendous side
effects for a 12% chance of
an actual cure or reversal
of symptoms, anyway.
>>MCTAGGART: It's
really hard for us
to accept this
because we really have
built our lives around the
idea that medicine is a science
and that we like to have
that kind of certainty.
And we believe
doctors are working
with well-proven products.
And we have the FDA
and other organizations
that really study the
stuff and make sure
that these things are safe.
But the bottom line is this
is a highly, highly corrupt
industry, with the vast majority
of its products have not--
and the vast majority of the
treatments we take for granted
have never been proven to work.
And I hate to say it,
but the vast majority
are nothing more than
21st-century voodoo.
>>NOORY: That's Lynne McTaggart
talking to our Regina Meredith
on "Healing Matrix."
What do you think of
what she said, Ben?
>>FUCHS: She's being kind.
She's being generous.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>>FUCHS: It's worse.
It's worse.
>>NOORY: How bad?
>>FUCHS: Because,
you see, we don't--
it's paradigmatic.
It's not the specifics of our
techniques and our strategies.
It's the paradigm.
And the paradigm
is there's nothing
we can do except take
care of your symptoms,
because there is nothing
they can do except
take care of your symptoms,
because they're not addressing
the causes.
And the causes are metabolic.
They're in the
chemistry, what we call
in biochemistry the "pathways."
And so you have
to understand how
the body is moving and creating
things and doing its business
and then backtrack.
It's called "troubleshooting"
in engineering.
>>NOORY: Why don't they
practice preventative medicine?
>>FUCHS: It's not
how they're wired.
I think I talked about this
on your program before.
There's this great battle--
there was this great battle.
It turns out one side won.
And it was the battle
between the prevention
or what we call the
"terrain," which
is the environment of
the body, and the germ.
And this was a battle that was
fought in the late 19th century
between a guy named Pasteur
and a guy named Béchamp.
And Pasteur said, it's attack.
Your body's being attacked.
All the bad things are
the result of attack.
And we need to come up with
ways of preventing the attack.
That's called "germ
theory," by the way.
And Béchamp said, no,
it's not the attack.
It's the environment that
the attack is coming into
or the so-called
attack is coming into.
It's the environment.
Well, it turns out that
we could use drugs for one
and not drugs for the other.
So the one side won.
The germ theory-- the
so-called germ theory won.
Preventative medicine--
>>NOORY: And as rightfully so?
>>FUCHS: No, not rightfully so.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>FUCHS: Absolutely to our great
detriment, because the terrain
is about prevention.
What you just said is
prevention means you
take care of the environment.
You support--
>>NOORY: Fix the car
before it breaks down.
>>FUCHS: Rather
than take bubble gum
and try to wire it together.
But the problem with the drug
model is it doesn't even use--
this is so important.
It doesn't even use bubble gum.
It uses suppression of chemistry
to achieve its effects.
It suppresses your biochemistry.
Your body is a
finely tuned machine
that our brain can't
even wrap itself
around the complexity and the
intricate network nature of all
the biochemical
systems and pathways
and all the things
that are happening.
You can't just suppress,
shut down, one side of it,
just knock it out.
A beta blocker drug-- you've
heard of beta blocker drugs?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FUCHS: They shut
your heart down.
A calcium channel blocker
shuts your blood vessels
in your heart down.
Immune suppressant drugs
shut down your immune system.
Every drug you can
think of says--
it's called an "anti"
or an "inhibitor."
>>NOORY: Do they
work for anything?
>>FUCHS: Symptoms.
But our symptoms are our
bodies' cry for help.
If your baby was
crying, would you
take scissors and cut his
tongue out and say, oh, well,
it shut that baby up?
That's how I shut my baby up.
>>NOORY: Some sicko might.
>>FUCHS: But they
take your gallbladder
out when your
gallbladder cries to you.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FUCHS: They take scissors, and
they cut your gallbladder out
because your gallbladder
is talking to you.
>>NOORY: Or your appendix.
>>FUCHS: Or your appendix
or something like that.
The model, the
paradigm-- so this
is why we keep
talking about Lynne.
I love Lynne, by the way.
She's brilliant, and
her work has really
been very influential for me.
>>NOORY: It is.
It is.
>>FUCHS: But it's
worse than that.
It's not 12%.
It's 12% if you allow
them to set the goal.
If the goal is to
quiet your heart down,
then maybe 12%,
maybe more than 12%.
But if the goal is to get you
healthier, which it should be,
or the goal is to
increase your longevity
or the goal is to increase
your quality of life,
your joie de vivre, zero, with
the exception of, as I say,
antibiotics.
But we pay the price in the
long run for antibiotics.
But for us, if you
have an infection,
antibiotics are very helpful.
And pain pills-- and
I think pain pills,
praise god for pain pills.
They're very, very important.
>>NOORY: But you
can overdo that.
And I've known people--
>>FUCHS: If people
are in pain, they
use them for psychological.
>>NOORY: I know people who
have died from taking too many.
>>FUCHS: They use them for
suffering, not for pain.
There's a difference
between pain and suffering.
>>NOORY: And maybe
emotional suffering.
>>FUCHS: Existential,
absolutely.
But the fact-- if they're
used as analgesia, anesthesia,
if you had surgery-- you know
how you used to have surgery
100 years ago, 200 years ago?
They give you a
bullet to bite on.
Or they give you a
little Jack Daniels.
They saw your leg off.
Or dental work--
can you imagine what
it's like to have dental work?
>>NOORY: I'm glad we're
not living in that era.
>>FUCHS: Exactly.
Exactly.
So that's why I
said earlier, I'm
not pollyannish about the
importance of medicine
and creative medicine.
But to take an anti-diabetic
drug that will artificially
suppress or manipulate
your sugar biochemistry
processing rather than not
eating a certain way is absurd.
And up until very
recently, the medical model
said it had nothing to do
with what you were eating.
>>NOORY: Why don't you do both?
>>FUCHS: Why take
something that your body
has to process as a poison?
There's no-- the
molecular structure
of a drug has no
analog or is nothing
that the body has evolved with.
It doesn't recognize
these structures.
The body's evolved
with certain chemistry,
the chemistry of apples,
the chemistry of pears,
the chemistry of
vegetables, the chemistry--
it didn't evolve with chemistry
of Lovastatin or the chemistry
of Macrodantin or the
chemistry of these--
Sildenafil-- and these
manipulated molecules.
So it sees these molecules, and
it freaks the heck out, George.
Why would you do
that to your body?
It's disrespectful to the body.
The medical model
as we have it--
the paradigm of
the medical model
is disrespectful
to God's handiwork.
It's disrespectful to the body.
It does not honor the body.
Everything I talk about on
your program and everything
that you have when you
have alternative guests
on your program and
nutritional guests,
we want to honor the body.
When you know about
the body-- and Lynne
said something very
interesting there.
She said doctors aren't
necessarily-- medicine
isn't necessarily science.
And it's not.
Medicine is about diagnostics.
This is why if I diagnose
something, I go to jail.
Medicine is about diagnosing.
It's about the right
to say, you have this.
I pronounce you diabetic.
>>NOORY: And you can take this.
>>FUCHS: And you can
take, and I am the remedy.
Medicine owns that.
In fact, not even
the doctor owns it.
There's something called
"standards of care."
Have you heard of
standards of care?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FUCHS: Right?
They have to.
The model insists, makes them
prescribe a certain thing.
And if you violate
standards of care,
you could lose your
license or even worse.
>>NOORY: Just for
not prescribing.
>>FUCHS: Just for
>>NOORY: I had a chance to
talk with the late homeopathic
physician Dr. Robin Falkov about
the mainstream medical model.
What is going on on
this planet right
now to try to control
the natural remedies that
are out there, that
are available to us,
that are inexpensive?
They want this because they
can't make any money on it,
can they?
>>ROBIN FALKOV: No, you
really hit the point there
with what's going on.
Homeopathy is cheap.
You don't have your
patients coming back
to you when you
do a proper workup
and you have identified what
their specific needs are
to get to the root cause.
When you get to the root cause,
you're not treating symptoms.
You're treating the problem.
And that's how
you're able to heal.
That goes against the business
plan for Western medicine,
because when you treat
symptoms, the medications
have side effects.
And the side effects
bring the patients back
for more medication.
And that creates
unknown entities.
It's a very, very
dangerous pattern
that has become mainstream now.
>>NOORY: Do you
agree with Robin?
>>FUCHS: Absolutely, 100%.
It is.
We have to understand that
we live in a corporatocracy.
Everything's a corporation.
>>NOORY: Everything.
>>FUCHS: And a
corporation's dead.
A corporation is a zombie.
It's dead, but it's alive.
It doesn't have a heart.
It doesn't have a soul.
It doesn't bleed.
It bleeds green.
And so when it--
>>NOORY: That's its god.
>>FUCHS: That's its god.
And in fact, if
a corporation has
a fiduciary responsibility--
so if it can make money
and screw you, it
has to do that.
Legally, it has to do that.
And that's OK--
well, it's never OK.
But it's one thing
if it's your computer
or your TV or your car.
But when it's your
body, that is unholy.
That is not fair.
That's not right.
But we-- I don't want to blame.
We live in a corporatocracy.
That's what we have.
We can take control
of our health.
And that's what we have to do.
>>NOORY: Some doctors, Ben,
if they prescribe medication,
get ticked off when we question
why they prescribed it to us
and what it's for?
>>FUCHS: What medical school
did you go to, Mr. Noory?
>>NOORY: Yeah, exactly.
>>FUCHS: Who's the doctor here?
>>NOORY: Why do
they get so upset?
>>FUCHS: Because
this is their turf.
>>NOORY: Are they offended?
>>FUCHS: It's their turf.
Who are you?
Who were you to--
>>NOORY: It's my body.
>>FUCHS: Hello.
Exactly.
That's why we have
a situation where
the operation was a success,
but we lost the patient.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FUCHS: And that's the
kind of model we have.
>>NOORY: Well, who's
right, them or me?
>>FUCHS: It's your
body, correct?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FUCHS: But you
see, George, this
is endemic of a bigger problem.
We have abdicated
responsibility to authority.
We have somehow given up
our personal sovereignty
to authority because we don't
think we're good enough.
We don't think
we're smart enough.
We don't think we're
capable enough.
And it's one thing
about your car.
I don't know how to fix my car.
It's one thing
about your computer.
I don't know how
to fix my computer.
But what is more intimate
to us than our bodies?
What should we know more
about than this thing,
this head-to-toe thing, we have?
I talk to a lot of
women, and women
have very interesting bodies
because their hormones
fluctuate.
I am always amazed
how little women know
about their hormonal cycles.
And I don't want to
blame women, but that's
just an example of
how little we are--
how disassociated we are
from our biochemistry,
from our metabolism, from our
physiology, from our anatomy.
Most people don't know
where their pancreas is
or what their pancreas does.
Or if you don't know what your
gallbladder does and the doctor
says, oh, you don't need
that silly thing and it's
causing a problem--
>>NOORY: It's got stones.
We're going to take it out.
>>FUCHS: Exactly.
You're going to say,
all right, take it out.
I don't know about it.
If you don't know how toxic
prescription drugs are
and the doctor says,
you need to take this,
we have to give you this
drug, you're going to take it.
My mother had neuropathy.
You know neuropathy?
>>NOORY: Yeah
>>FUCHS: She had neuropathy.
Her toes--
>>NOORY: Was she a diabetic?
>>FUCHS: Of course,
the tests say--
you don't go by tests.
You go by symptoms,
if you're intelligent.
But the tests say no,
but she clearly is.
So she's got neuropathy.
So they gave her--
first, they gave
her a Gabapentin,
which is a drug that has
some slight pain relieving
properties, but knocks you out.
She said she didn't want
that, so they gave her
an antidepressant.
>>NOORY: Antidepressant?
>>FUCHS: A horrible--
not even a--
>>NOORY: Like a benzo?
>>FUCHS: No, he gave
her Amitriptyline.
You ever hear of this one?
This is an old-school
antidepressant,
because they don't have
this regard for the body
that we as the owners
of the body have.
>>NOORY: But there are some
great doctors out there, Ben.
>>FUCHS: Yeah, there
are great doctors.
It's not the individuals.
It's the model.
It's the paradigm.
There are great doctors.
There are great
doctors who research.
There are doctors who are smart.
But the average doctor
is just like a worker.
He's a technician.
And his job is not to fix you.
It's to diagnose you.
And this is a mistake that we
make when we go to the doctor.
The doctor's role
is to diagnose you.
And then if there's something
they could do for it,
they'll try.
And they'll put it together.
But they're trained to diagnose.
>>NOORY: What is disease,
according to you?
>>FUCHS: Disease is out of ease.
The body has a certain
way of working.
And when it's
working, it's in ease.
Things are easy.
Chemistry's moving as it should.
When it short-circuits--
and basically,
what we talk about with
disease, from a biological
or a bioelectrical
level, is short circuits.
And this is where vitamins and
essential nutrients come in.
Essential nutrients
facilitate the movement
of electrical energy.
We're not chemistry, really.
We think we're
chemistry, and we have
a chemical model, a drug
model, a medical model
that honors chemistry.
But we're really quantum.
We're really
electrons and protons.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FUCHS: And the movement
of electrons and protons
through the body is
what makes you healthy.
And nature has set
up a system where
there will be little breaks
in the flow of electrons
and protons.
And a bridge will come to
fill those little breaks.
You know what we
call those bridges?
The essential nutrients, the
mighty 90 essential nutrients.
>>NOORY: You've
got to have that.
>>FUCHS: They're the
bridge that allows
electrons and protons to flow
through chemical reactions.
When we're diseased
or short circuits,
the electrons and protons aren't
flowing as well as they should.
>>NOORY: Even one supplement
could screw it up, right?
>>FUCHS: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
All the supplements work
together as a team, a symphony.
In a symphony, if the violin
is missing or the oboe's
out of tune.
>>NOORY: You can tell.
>>FUCHS: It ain't
the same symphony.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at Dr. Edward Group,
who had an opportunity to talk
with Dr. Sue Morter on "Healing
Matrix" about disease.
>>SUE MORTER: This message of
yours has been decades old now.
You're in this idea that
we need to get to the cause
and not treat the symptom
and not load the body up
with a bunch of
pharmaceuticals in order
to have some healing happen.
So can you just say
a little bit more
about what this idea
of the root cause is,
for our viewers that might not
be as acclimated to this idea
as you and I are in this moment?
>>EDWARD GROUP: Yes, absolutely.
So the first thing
we wanted to do
was to look at why
people were sick.
And talking to
doctors, we evaluated
what they were finding
on blood work, what
they were finding
by just talking
to the individual patient.
A lot of times, you can just
get so much information just
by speaking to the individual.
But what we found was
all disease or the root
cause of all disease was
a combination of toxins.
We looked at-- we broke
it down into categories.
We found that there's a certain
level of toxins in the air
that we breathe
because we're taking
thousands of breaths, 30,000
breaths every single day.
Most people live
in an environment
where they're breathing
toxic indoor air.
They're breathing
toxic outdoor air.
And air can contain many, many
different forms of toxins.
What we were looking
at was how are
people being exposed to any
type of disease causing agent.
So we looked at the air first.
And we found that
most people that
had any type of
disease or condition
were exposed to some form
of chemicals in the air.
Then we looked at the food
that they were eating.
So we broke it down into
two categories, basically,
the internal environment
and the external environment
that people were exposed to.
Air would be external.
Food would be internal.
And then we looked at the
genetically modified foods,
the processed foods,
the microwaved foods,
all of the
preservatives in foods.
And we found that most of
the foods were contaminated.
Then we looked at water,
which is the number one
substance that we have.
All living things are composed
of at least 80% water,
including the Earth and
plants and everything.
So water was a big
component that we looked at.
And we found that the
toxins in the water
supplies, whether it's fluoride,
bromine, chlorine, prescription
drug residue, endocrine
disrupting chemicals, all
of these things-- heavy
metals in the water supply,
the fracking, which was
even creating natural gases
in the water supply.
So these were contributing
to the toxic load in people.
And then we looked at
the emotional toxic load,
as well, because that was a
very important aspect of it,
as far as if someone's
in a state of stress
or if someone's in a state
of anger or fear or jealousy
or resentment.
Those contributed
to the toxic load.
And then the harmful
organisms was the other thing
that we looked at, which
contributed and was associated
with not only cancer, but
with every single disease
we looked at.
>>NOORY: Well, you want
to jump off a bridge
after listening to him.
But is he right?
>>FUCHS: That's the downside.
Oh, he's right on, 100%.
It's probably worse.
You notice he said the
prescription drugs, too.
You're on-- all those drugs
we were talking about?
You're on them right now.
And I'm on them right now.
>>NOORY: What do you
mean I'm on them?
>>FUCHS: You're on birth
control pills right now.
>>NOORY: No, I'm not.
>>FUCHS: Yeah. you are.
It's in your water.
It's in your coffee.
>>NOORY: Oh, I
see what you mean.
People throw it in the--
>>FUCHS: And you pee it out.
You urinate it out.
It goes into the water supply.
Everything-- in the factory,
they're dumping stuff out.
>>NOORY: Aren't they cleaning
this out of the water system?
>>FUCHS: No, you can't.
It's in the ocean.
It's everywhere.
It's raining it.
>>NOORY: So we have
opioids, everything.
>>FUCHS: Glyphosate
and fluoride.
It's so toxic, George.
But that's the amazing
thing about the body.
The liver has the
ability to purify.
And it not only has
the ability to purify.
It has an ability
to purify things
that it's never seen before
because when it purifies them,
it purifies chemistry
by building blocks.
So it doesn't matter if it's
never seen the drug before,
because it's pulling out the
building blocks of that drug.
And the building
blocks are all the same
throughout nature, even
synthetic building blocks.
So the liver can do it.
That's why all the--
I call it "locus of control,"
where you have control.
You don't have control
over the birth control
pills in your water.
>>NOORY: No, you don't.
>>FUCHS: That's the society.
But you do have control
over your vitamin C levels.
You do have control over
your glutathione levels--
>>NOORY: And vitamin D--
>>FUCHS: And vitamin
D. And Dr. Group
said something very brilliant.
He said fear and jealousy and
anger and resentment and all
the things that we know
intuitively are not virtuous,
George, those are
all things that
cost us longevity,
that cost us health,
that cost us quality of life.
So it's one thing to say,
OK, there are the virtues.
And there's an unvirtuous
life, and you're angry
and you're hostile
and all of that.
But when you're angry
and hostile, George--
this is so ironic to me.
When you're angry
at somebody, whose
blood pressure's going up?
Whose immune--
>>NOORY: The individual.
>>FUCHS: Yes.
It's so ironic to me how
when we hate somebody,
we don't forgive somebody, or
when we're angry at somebody,
it's our blood pressure
that's going up.
Can you see this?
It's kind of crazy.
So understanding how to
control locus of control--
apply locus of
control spiritually
by plugging into the universe.
We are one with the universe.
We're connected to the universe.
This is quantum physics.
>>NOORY: What is it about
the body that heals?
>>FUCHS: Wisdom, intelligence.
There's an intelligence in Gaia.
It's called Gaia.
There's an intelligence
in the universe.
The planets are all
perfectly aligned.
They never fall
off of their axis.
Cells know how to recover.
The cells of the bone
are stronger at the point
of the break after the break.
We recover not-- we
don't just recover.
We recover stronger and better.
This is a theme throughout
nature, self-repair, growth.
It's part of something called
systems "systems theory."
Systems theory is
a physics concept.
But as we said earlier how
underneath chemistry is
physics, systems theory
underlies biochemistry.
And that is the
body is a system.
The cells are a system.
Everything is a system, and it
has a certain way of growing.
And the way systems
work is energy
gets inputted into the system.
If the system's healthy,
it transduces that energy
and produces
something beneficial.
If the system is not
healthy, it doesn't do that.
>>NOORY: And how do if
it's healthy or not?
>>FUCHS: How you-- your
energy, your joie de vivre.
In fact, we know we're healthy
better than a doctor knows
if we're healthy.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>FUCHS: Another thing Dr.
Group said that was really cool,
he said--
he was almost flip about it.
He said, you can
learn a lot of things
by talking to your patient.
Heck yes.
Today, doctors take your blood,
and they look at the numbers.
And they see your scores.
And they go to the book,
and it's all numbers .
What I do when I'm working
with a patient, I say,
how's your digestive system?
How are your bowel movements?
What does your skin look like?
How do you handle--
how do you sleep?
How do you handle
stress in your life?
These are much more important
than your blood sugar.
People tell me, oh
my god, I have--
my nails are breaking.
My skin is dry.
My hair is falling out.
I'm tired.
And I went and had
my thyroid test,
and he said
everything was normal.
I say, who cares what he said?
You had all the symptoms.
>>NOORY: Something's wrong.
>>FUCHS: It's the thyroid
regulates all those things.
So you're guaranteed
hypothyroid.
I don't need a test.
I can just ask you questions.
It's like if you
go to a restaurant
and you eat the hamburger.
And you spit it out.
You go, oh, that's the
most awful hamburger.
Call the waiter.
That's the most awful hamburger.
The waiter says, what
are you talking about?
Look at the menu.
"Delicious hamburger.
Best hamburger ever."
You say, I don't care
what it says on the menu.
That's a lousy hamburger.
But we have such abdicated
authority and sovereignty
over our own bodies to such
a degree, we say, all right.
I'm not hypothyroid.
I went to the doctor.
The doctor said my
tests are all normal.
You talk to your patient.
You look at your patient.
You see how he's
holding himself,
how he's talking to you.
There are all
kinds of indicators
that will tell you even
on the telephone more
about a person's health and
help you adjust or modify
or help them adjust or
modify their bodies way more
than a blood cholesterol score.
>>NOORY: Ben, what's biohacking?
>>FUCHS: It's kind of cool.
It has a kind of
ominous sound to it,
but biohacking's
taking supplements.
Biohacking is meditating.
By the way, meditation
is a really awesome way
to control your body.
>>NOORY: Well, let's look at a
little video about biohacking.
>>FUCHS: OK.
>>NARRATOR: Meet
a group of people
from different corners of the
world, all linked by a desire
to make their bodies and
brains function better.
They're inserting
technology under their skin,
adopting extreme
diets, trying to change
the biology they were born with,
some trying to live to 150.
>>MAN: I would be willing
to take pretty much anything
in order to improve my biology.
>>NARRATOR: Meet "Biohackers."
>>NOORY: And that's, of course,
supplied by the BBC News, which
does a great job
creating some kind
of educational kind of thing.
>>FUCHS: And it has a
very compelling message.
I like biohacking
in a simple way.
Eating is biohacking,
putting food in your mouth.
Biohacking means
getting into the system.
Remember, I was
talking about how
it's all biochemical pathways.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>FUCHS: Hacking is entering
into a biochemical pathway
and making it go faster.
Basically, that's what it means.
You make a biochemical pathway
do what you want it to do.
I think breathing, oxygenating,
supplementing, meditating,
exercising, sleeping, resting,
that's how I prefer to biohack.
>>NOORY: If you do
all these things--
eating right, exercising,
meditating, supplementation--
theoretically, what
should happen to you?
>>FUCHS: You live a
long, healthy life.
And you'll die in your sleep.
You'll die at age
100, in your sleep,
sitting on your rocking chair
with your favorite book.
And you'll just leave.
You'll just leave
your body, ideally.
>>NOORY: And if
there's an afterlife,
you'll know you've left.
>>FUCHS: And if
there's an afterlife,
you'll look back and
say, that was good, man.
>>NOORY: And if there
isn't, who cares?
>>FUCHS: That's right.
That's a good point.
But I think there is.
>>NOORY: But you are a
booster of supplementation.
That's what you do at
criticalhealthnews.com.
>>FUCHS: It's interesting.
That's what I do at
criticalhealthnews.com.
That's exactly right.
It's funny because I don't
really like supplements.
I'm a booster of it,
yes, that's true.
And I encourage
people to supplement.
But I wish we didn't have to.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
But don't you feel guilty
if you don't in a morning?
I've got a regimen, Ben,
every morning, of working out
four days a week.
>>FUCHS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I do the Royal
Canadian Air Force exercise--
>>FUCHS: Every morning
or four mornings.
>>NOORY: Four mornings.
I do some treadmill at
night and stuff like that.
I supplement like crazy.
I must take 25 different--
>>FUCHS: All your life?
>>NOORY: Well, primarily
over the last 10 years,
really over the last 10 years.
But one capsule might
have 20 vitamins in it.
>>FUCHS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: But I take about
25 different sources
for just about
every possibility.
>>FUCHS: And you
travel with them?
You have a case?
>>NOORY: Turmeric and stuff.
Doc Wallach taught me that
from criticalhealthnews.com--
>>FUCHS: Doc's amazing--
>>NOORY: Where I have one of
those little pill dispenser
things.
>>FUCHS: Good for you.
>>NOORY: And I put
all the vitamins in,
depending on how many
days I'm going to be gone.
>>FUCHS: George,
not only is it going
to add years to your life.
>>NOORY: I feel guilty
if I don't do it.
>>FUCHS: Because you have
an inner wisdom that's
telling you to do it.
I don't know if
you have any vices.
You probably don't
have any vices.
But if you know any--
>>NOORY: I've got a few.
I've got a few.
>>FUCHS: All right.
So next time you do one of
your vices, whatever that is--
we'll say Snickers bars.
I don't know if that is.
But when you have
a Snickers bar--
>>NOORY: Kit Kats--
>>FUCHS: Kit Kats.
You have a Kit Kat.
So take a Kit Kat.
The next time you take a Kit
Kat, unwrap it really slowly.
And take that little piece
of delectable goodness,
that chocolaty goodness
that you like so much
with that little crackle
you're about to hear,
all that anticipation.
Raise it up to your
mouth very slowly.
And listen, and you'll hear a
voice go, no, just like that.
Be very quiet.
It'll be your voice.
>>NOORY: Are you
saying, don't take it?
>>FUCHS: I'm just telling
you you have an inner wisdom.
We usually say, shut up.
And we go ahead and
eat the Kit Kat.
We go fast.
That's why they want
you eating fast.
That's why they call it
"fast food," because you've
got to eat it fast because
if you ate it slow--
>>NOORY: You wouldn't like it--
>>FUCHS: You wouldn't
like it very much.
That voice would say, what
the heck are you doing?
So they actually put softeners.
>>NOORY: What is hunger?
Why do we have that
feeling when we don't eat?
>>FUCHS: Yeah, hunger's
an interesting--
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>FUCHS: That's great.
I lost 50 pounds
a few years ago.
And I did it by distinguishing
two kinds of hunger.
And I notice there's
There's the kind of hunger
where you have to eat,
and there's the kind of
hunger where you want to eat.
And those are very distinct.
>>NOORY: Binging.
>>FUCHS: If you could
tease those apart,
you will find that you don't
need to eat a lot of food.
In fact, you need to eat
shockingly small portions
of food.
In fact, next time you're
really hungry, George,
truly, truly hungry, truly--
>>NOORY: Like starving hungry?
>>FUCHS: Like haven't eaten in
two days or a day or however
long, as long as you've gone--
10 hours, 12 hours.
Put food in front of you.
And then eat it slowly.
And you'll notice
that as hungry as you
were, within two or three
bites, you're not hungry.
>>NOORY: You're kind of stuffed.
>>FUCHS: You're fine.
You're fine.
And every morsel after that--
>>NOORY: Is it the head?
>>FUCHS: It's totally the head.
The head is wired for
calories because we
evolved from a
situation where there
weren't a lot of calories.
This calorie surfeit
that we have today
is a 100-year-old phenomenon.
Not even-- it's about an
80-year-old phenomenon.
For millennia, George, you
know what our ancestors
had to do for food?
Can you imagine what food
was like in a bad farming
season in the middle of--
>>NOORY: Oh my god, horrible.
>>FUCHS: Dying of
starvation was routine.
And you can't think of--
there's not a worse way to die.
>>NOORY: They loved potatoes.
>>FUCHS: Exactly,
the potato famine.
Exactly right.
So we're wired.
We're the descendants
of ancestors
that survived by
finding calories,
by getting calories, ingesting
calories, and holding
onto calories.
And that's our genetic heritage,
except for the last 80 years,
we have a Snickers bar
and a candy machine
or soda, 7-Eleven, French
fries every 20 yards.
So that's not a very
good combination.
And what it requires is
what you have in spades.
This is what you have
in spades, George.
You have discipline,
and you have willpower.
>>NOORY: You have to have both.
>>FUCHS: You're a master at it.
>>FUCHS: That's exactly right.
You have to have that.
If you don't have it, you are
going to be made mincemeat of.
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>FUCHS: You will be crushed.
>>FUCHS: The world
will crush you
if you don't have
discipline and you
don't have willpower to do it.
And you know what?
That makes a better species.
>>NOORY: In anything
you do in life--
>>FUCHS: Anything--
>>NOORY: Not just
supplementation.
>>FUCHS: Bingo, anything.
It's how to live life.
It makes a better person.
It makes a better species.
It makes us stronger.
So we have to learn
how to handle the mind.
And you said you did the Royal--
>>NOORY: Canadian
exercise, four days a week.
>>FUCHS: A lot of
that is mental.
Royal Canadians understood--
like all military.
>>NOORY: And let me tell
you what this practice is.
They give you a
series of exercises
based on your age and a
level based on your age
that you must hit.
Once you hit it, you're
supposed to sustain it.
What I do is once I hit
it, I go to the next level.
>>FUCHS: Is that right?
>>NOORY: The next age bracket.
I lower myself.
>>FUCHS: So you're younger.
So you're doing
a younger man's--
>>NOORY: I'm doing a
younger man's thing.
>>FUCHS: Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it shows.
>>NOORY: And I'm
getting by doing it.
>>FUCHS: It shows.
It shows.
I'll bet you in many ways,
you're in better shape
now than you were 10 years ago.
>>NOORY: Or 20 years ago.
>>FUCHS: Right.
>>NOORY: I wish I knew today
what I should have known then.
>>FUCHS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It would've
saved all kinds of things.
>>FUCHS: That's why we're here.
If we can get somebody
to advance that or even
participate in that kind
of program-- supplement,
exercise, meditate,
oxygenate, rest, relax,
access your spiritual powers
and your mental powers
and your emotional powers.
If we can get them to just
do it five years earlier,
we can change the
world in a huge way.
>>NOORY: If you were to take
one supplement, just one,
what would it be?
>>FUCHS: Beyond Tangy Tangerine.
You know that.
I've been a formulator
myself for many years,
and that is such an
exquisite formulation.
Above and beyond
that, I represent it.
It's just amazing.
So when you say "supplement,"
I think you mean one vitamin.
>>NOORY: One vitamin.
Vitamin B--
>>FUCHS: Yeah, I know.
That's--
>>NOORY: Selenium.
What?
>>FUCHS: George, you
like baseball, right?
>>NOORY: Yeah, I love it.
>>FUCHS: OK.
So if you can--
>>NOORY: Tiger fan.
>>FUCHS: If you could have a--
OK, great.
If you could have a
team and I said to you,
you could only have
one position filled,
what position would that be?
There's no way.
You can't.
>>NOORY: You need nine people.
>>FUCHS: That's
how nutrition is.
Nutrition is a team.
We isolate things because
we love to isolate.
We love to-- we're a very
reductionist society,
and our culture's
very reductionist.
But you can't
isolate supplements.
If you had to pick
one, I don't even know.
>>NOORY: Magnesium?
>>FUCHS: No, definitely
not magnesium.
It'd be vitamin C, probably.
>>NOORY: Or zinc?
>>FUCHS: No, it'd be vitamin C.
>>NOORY: It would be C.
>>FUCHS: It would be
vitamin C, probably.
But that's--
>>NOORY: Turmeric?
>>FUCHS: Ah,
turmeric's up there.
>>NOORY: I love that.
>>FUCHS: I know you do.
>>NOORY: Ben, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
And if people want more
information, Critical Health
News?
>>FUCHS: Critical Health News.
Yes, go to
criticalhealthnews.com.
We blog.
We post.
We have videos, lots of
great health information.
Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: Super.
Look, we want you to be
around for a long, long time.
Just listen to some of the
words of pharmacist Ben Fuchs,
and he'll give you
a few more years.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]